.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024 zhenwei pi <pizhenwei@bytedance.com>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"
.TH HUGETOP 1 2024-12-16 procps-ng
.SH NAME
hugetop \- report huge page information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hugetop
.RB [ \-d
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-Hn ]
.P
.B hugetop
.RB [ \-Hon ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hugetop
reports the system's huge page reservations and usage.
It displays a summary of the system's huge page allocations.
For each process that has at least one huge page,
it lists
the number of private and shared pages,
along with the associated PID and command name.
.P
By default,
.B \%hugetop
presents a full-screen
.BR top (1)-like
interface that refreshes every three seconds.
Press \[lq]q\[rq] to quit.
.SH OPTIONS
.B \-h
and
.B \-\-help
display a usage message,
while
.B \-v
and
.B \%\-\-version
show version information;
all exit afterward.
.TP
.BI \-\-delay= n
.TQ
.BI \-d\~ n
Refresh the display every
.I n
seconds.
Ignored if
.B \-o
is also specified.
.TP
.B \-\-human
.TQ
.B \-H
Use human-readable units.
.TP
.B \-\-numa
.TQ
.B \-n
Display per-NUMA-node huge page information.
.TP
.B \-\-once
.TQ
.B \-o
Write one report to the standard output stream,
without launching the full-screen interface,
then exit.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
The program operated successfully.
.TP
.B 1
The system lacks support for the huge page feature,
or a system call or library function failed;
a diagnostic message reports specifics.
.TP
.B 2
The program could not interpret its command-line arguments.
.SH AUTHOR
zhenwei pi <pizhenwei@bytedance.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pmap (1)
.SH STANDARDS
No standards apply.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please send bug reports to
.MT procps@freelists.org
.ME .
